what-the-people-want.md, before:

When we gave this workshop, we asked the audience "What kind of APIs do you hope exist, or know exist and want to know more about?", and asked them to discuss ideas with their neighbors. This is an annotated version of the answers we got, with our comments in bold.  
  
  
Book data  
Dog Tinder  
NOAA  
I want to make Twitter bots  
> **Great! We have [a Jupyter notebook](https://github.com/WPRDC/api-training/blob/master/twitter_bot_demo.ipynb) to get you started.**  

Lead pipes in the area  
Sensor data from cars  
What does Google know about me?  
Mascots  
Info about animal hybrids  
Air quality  
Restaurants data  
Happy hours  
Census & federal data  
Air quality  
Deliver me food  
Fire calls  
Library history  
Ticketing systems  
Mine Google searches  
Pittsburgh start-ups  
Voter registration  
Weather (x2)  
> **There's a bunch of APIs that will give you weather data/forecasts. Virtually all require API keys and most have limits on how fast you can pull data. The [Dark Sky API](https://darksky.net/dev) is one we can recommend, as it's nice, quite accurate, and currently allows 1000 free API calls per day.**  

Twitter bots but also computational biology visualization tools  
Where are they testing autonomous cars?  
GitHub  
What did my neighbor just Google?  
API for individuals rating similar to credit score  
Restaurant health inspection results  
Amazon  
Price-compare grocery store items (pull data from Target, Giant Eagle, etc.)  
Building permit dataset on WPRDC  
ADA compliance  
API for lost-and-found items  
API with the best rate/price for an item  
API that lists restaurants with ratings/reviews  
Routes based on road quality  
Where can I park?  
More neighborhood-level data  
Arcade video games  
Health care automation for scheduling purposes  
API for scheduling health-care appointments (x2)  
Voter registration  
Stormwater simulation  
Send it a picture, tell me what it is a picture of  
Create running routes based on Strava/MapMyRun/GoogleMaps data  
Sports scores

Commit message:

Add comment about availability of air-quality data

what-the-people-want.md, after:

When we gave this workshop, we asked the audience "What kind of APIs do you hope exist, or know exist and want to know more about?", and asked them to discuss ideas with their neighbors. This is an annotated version of the answers we got, with our comments in bold.  
  
  
Book data  
Dog Tinder  
NOAA  
I want to make Twitter bots  
> **Great! We have [a Jupyter notebook](https://github.com/WPRDC/api-training/blob/master/twitter_bot_demo.ipynb) to get you started.**  

Lead pipes in the area  
Sensor data from cars  
What does Google know about me?  
Mascots  
Info about animal hybrids  
Air quality  
> **We actually have a [sample notebook about using WPRDC data on local air quality](https://github.com/WPRDC/Jupyter-notebooks-by-dataset/blob/master/air-quality-exploration.ipynb), too. Another great resource is the Environmental Protection Agency's [AirNow site](https://www.airnow.gov/) which has [an API](https://docs.airnowapi.org/) that lets you pull historical air-quality measurements, current measurements, forecasts by ZIP code or latitude/longitude, and even contour maps of air quality.  

Restaurants data  
Happy hours  
Census & federal data  
Air quality  
Deliver me food  
Fire calls  
Library history  
Ticketing systems  
Mine Google searches  
Pittsburgh start-ups  
Voter registration  
Weather (x2)  
> **There's a bunch of APIs that will give you weather data/forecasts. Virtually all require API keys and most have limits on how fast you can pull data. The [Dark Sky API](https://darksky.net/dev) is one we can recommend, as it's nice, quite accurate, and currently allows 1000 free API calls per day.**  

Twitter bots but also computational biology visualization tools  
Where are they testing autonomous cars?  
GitHub  
What did my neighbor just Google?  
API for individuals rating similar to credit score  
Restaurant health inspection results  
Amazon  
Price-compare grocery store items (pull data from Target, Giant Eagle, etc.)  
Building permit dataset on WPRDC  
ADA compliance  
API for lost-and-found items  
API with the best rate/price for an item  
API that lists restaurants with ratings/reviews  
Routes based on road quality  
Where can I park?  
More neighborhood-level data  
Arcade video games  
Health care automation for scheduling purposes  
API for scheduling health-care appointments (x2)  
Voter registration  
Stormwater simulation  
Send it a picture, tell me what it is a picture of  
Create running routes based on Strava/MapMyRun/GoogleMaps data  
Sports scores
